docs: miscellaneous improvements (#3219)
docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver: docs/content/introduction.md

---
title: Introduction
---

# An Overview of Mail Server Infrastructure

This article answers the question "What is a mail server, and how does it perform its duty?" and it gives the reader an introduction to the field that covers everything you need to know to get started with `docker-mailserver`.

> ## The Anatomy of a Mail Server

Author: 👍🏼

```txt
 ┏━━━━ Outward Submission ━━━━┓

                    ┌────────────────────┐                    ┌┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┐
Me ---------------> ┤                    ├ -----------------> ┊                 ┊
                    │       My MTA       │                    ┊ Third-party MTA ┊
                    │                    ├ <----------------- ┊                 ┊
                    └────────────────────┘                    └┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┘

                               ┗━━━━━━━━━━ Inward Submission ━━━━━━━━━━┛
```

#### Outward Submission

> The best practice as of 2020 when it comes to securing Outward Submission is to use _Implicit TLS connection via ESMTP on port 465_ (see [RFC 8314][rfc-8314]). Please read our article about [**Understanding the Ports**][docs-understandports] for more details!

Reviewer: Although we are encouraging this, DMS doesn't actually support it well right now :sweat_smile: 

I'd need to look over this section more thoroughly, but AFAIK it's only applicable for sending to a relay / smart host, I'm not sure if this article clarified that. Users should understand that it's otherwise port 25, and this is more about choosing between port 587 or 465 for the most part (_or alternative submission ports offering explicit / implicit TLS_).

```suggestion
When it comes to securing Outward Submission you should prefer to use _Implicit TLS connection via ESMTP on port 465_ (see [RFC 8314][rfc-8314]). Please read our article about [**Understanding the Ports**][docs-understandports] for more details!
```

Author: 👍🏼

- It does not enable Explicit TLS (STARTTLS) on port 25 by default. One may enable it through advanced custom configuration, either as a replacement (bad!) or as a supplementary mean of secure Outward Submission.
- One may also secure Outward Submission using advanced encryption scheme, such as DANE/DNSSEC and/or MTA-STS.

> #### Inward Submission

Author: Done in a2f22185658abe768e99d1793f990130e9f5f583
